---
layout: post
title: "No to real-time AI prompts" initiative
date: 2022-07-01 00:00:00 +0300
description: An initiative for the regulation of real-time AI language models, to restrict their use on human-human interactions.
img: parenting_pexels-phil-nguyen-1361766.jpg 
tags: [Artificial Intelligence, Neural Network, Science]
---

I propose the initiative "No to real-time AI prompts". What is it, you ask? Something that will soon be a controversial application of AI, affecting every social interaction you have, and for which we better prepare.

AI language models are now capable of generating realistic text usable in real-life social interactions. Soon, tech companies will offer dialogue suggestions to people in their daily conversations, using devices like phones, watches, glasses or earphones.

Imagine talking with someone (friend, family, student, teacher, costumer, anyone), and being unable to know if what this person is saying was thought by the person, or generated by a powerful AI. Who are you talking with?

This tech will change human interactions radically. You can no longer assume anything about your interlocutors, including their purpose and ethics. Open, safe and fair conversations will be gone, creating a world of unfaithful and dubious human interactions.

To prevent that, "No to real-time AI prompts" seeks to regulate the use of language models in real-time interactions. Specially in face to face interactions, but also in digital communication. Adding AI disclaimers, like in deep fakes.

Much like deep fake images, which is targetted for enforced transparency by the European Comission.

Deep fake images (synthetic)

In this case, let's fix it before it's broken. Cause it will be broken soon enough, and the damage to our society can be huge.




I've been a parent forever. The first thing to know about parenting is that it occupies every space available. And that includes your memory. Technically speaking, I've been a parent 16% of all my lifetime. But it feels like 3 lifetimes. In this time, I've learnt a few tricks, tips, and inside information. I wish to share this with all sorts of parents: potential, noobs, and professionals.

* Being a parent entails constantly losing discussions in which you are obviously right. All the time. To understand and experiment with the feeling, go to any webpage full of people who are your opposite in opinions. Get into a discussion with some douche, and let them win. Now do it every day. A sort of Fight Club thing, but with hurt feelings and shattered self-esteem instead of broken bones.

* Parenting is the hardest thing I've ever done. By far. Be prepared for failure and focus on little victories. You will make mistakes, constantly, and big ones too. Always look ahead and try to get better at parenting. If anything else fails, be passive or walk away.

* You'll have problems, and occasionally find a solution that actually works. Know that it won't last long. Kids are evolving problems, and solutions work briefly. You still need to find solutions, constantly, so keep at it.

* Get used to half bananas, and melting icecream. You'll eat lots of it. Say goodbye to the tender part of anything. And try not to starve. Feeding kids can be exhausting, always make an extra effort to feed yourself properly.

* The Grand Canyon and a nearby park they have never been to are equally amazing to kids under 4. Plan your activities and holidays with that in mind.

* Don't bother trying to get kids to steadily look at cameras. Focus on making sure all adults look the way they should. No blinking allowed. Shoot a lot of pictures and you may get a good one.

